1 What is a requirement in RE?
2 What are traits of a good requirement?
3 Who are market participants?
4 What are the main phases in the software development process of a software product lifecycle?
5 What basic types of processes do you know, and can you give an example of each?
6 What is the motivation for addressing software requirements in a requirements engineering (RE) process?
7 Please explain the two basic types of RE process target orientations?
8 What are the RE process steps/levels? Which questions have to asked in each phase?
9 Which topics should be analysed in the RE context phase?
10 What is the difference between a Business Plan and a Business Case?
11 What does SMART mean in the context of treats of goals?
12 Which main questions shall be asked in a risk analyse?
13 Which types of constraints do you know and can you name examples?
14 Why is it important to manage the boundaries?
15 Please name some key types of non-functional requirements
16 What are possible sources for the elicitation of requirements? Please name also examples for the resources?
17 What different types of user do you know and how do they differ?
18 What are stakeholders in RE and how can they be identified?
19 How can a target group be differentiated?
20 What are personas? Please explain what they are for.
21 What are the major approaches to create personas?
22 What is a context model?
23 Why is it important to get the "big picture" before writing the requirements?
24 Please explain the differences between a wireframe, mock-up and prototype?
25 Why is prototyping useful?
26 What are the main methods to gather requirements. Can you provide some examples?
27 Do you know some idea & design generating methods ?
28 Please name some criteria to verify requirements?
29 Please explain the difference between Validation and Verification
30 Do you know the difference concepts of writing requirements in natural language. Please explain the differences?
31 Please explain the advantages of textual requirements and modelled requirements (diagrams).
32 What diagram types do you know and what do they show?
33 What comes to mind when you think about abstraction level of requirements? What role plays a "cross reference" in this context.
34 Which documents come to mind when you think about project work results?
35 How is availability defined? Can you express it in a formular?
36 Why is 100% availability of a system/service considered impossible?
37 Please explain the main focus of the integrity, reliability and availability
38 Please explain the differences of between SW product quality, Usability and User Experience.
39 Do you know some positive characteristics of a user dialogue?
40 Do you know some positive characteristics of a IT product?
41 What does compliance mean in IT? Can you give examples of which documents should be considered during software development?
42 What do think about the slogan "form follows function"?

    